---
layout: post
title:  IRMP colloquium on crowd-sourcing optical follow-up searches
category: News
date: 2018-11-14 08:00:00 +0100
---

Some echos from Ref. {% cite boucher:2018xvk %} and [this
post]({% post_url 2018-01-01-1801.04124 %}). Thursday,
2pm, room CYCL 01, C. Ringeval gives a talk for the [**IRMP
colloquium**](https://agenda.irmp.ucl.ac.be/event/3162/).

---

### Crowd-sourcing galaxy clusters confirmation with non-professional telescopes

*The new all sky and multi-wavelength astrophysical and cosmological
 surveys are, and will be, providing an unprecedented amount of
 information on a plethora of cosmic objects. Many of them are
 foregrounds for the original science goals and cannot received the
 same attention as the mission main objectives. Within the Planck
 satellite maps of our universe, a space telescope dedicated to the
 observation of the Cosmic Microwave Background, a few thousand of so
 far undetected galaxy clusters are letting very peculiar imprints
 through the so-called Sunyaev Zel'dovich effect. These cluster
 candidates have never been observed with optical telescopes and
 confirmation of their true nature requires a significant amount of
 professional telescope time.  In this talk, I will present a
 proof-of-concept of crowd-sourcing galaxy clusters optical
 confirmation with amateur astronomers. Using a non-professional
 telescope of 62cm provided by the Astroqueyras association in
 Saint-Véran (France), we have been able to confirm one of the Planck
 cluster candidate and to extract various of its properties, such as
 distance, redshift and mass. Although the exposure time required to
 image one cluster candidate is an order of magnitude larger than with
 a professional telescope, there are orders of magnitude more amateur
 astronomers than professionals thereby rendering the concept useful
 to many other surveys. They are the South Pole Telescope, the Atacama
 Cosmology Telescope, future X-ray spatial missions such as eRosita,
 and all of the searches for gravitational wave optical counterparts.*

