---
layout: post
title:  Belgian Gravitational Waves meeting
category: News
date: 2018-09-12 14:00:00 +0100
---

On Thursday 25th, we have the pleasure to host the Belgian
Gravitational Waves meeting. It starts at **2pm**, seminar **room
E349**. Our guest speakers are **Stefan Antusch** and **Giulia
Cusin**.

[**GW meetings**](https://fys.kuleuven.be/gwc/activities-folder/GWseminars)

---

At 14:00, Stefan Antusch (Basel U.), will be talking about


### Oscillons and gravitational waves from preheating after inflation


*We discuss the preheating phase after inflation in particle physics
motivated models of the early universe. We show that the non-linear
dynamics after hilltop-type inflation models, where inflation can be
linked to a particle physics phase transition, can lead to the
formation of oscillons, comparatively long-lived and strong local
fluctuations of the inflaton field. Similar types of scalar field
potentials also appear in the KKLT scenario in string phenomenology,
and oscillons can form for the modulus field. We argue that when the
oscillons are asymmetric for a sufficiently long period, they can
generate a peak in the otherwise rather broad gravitational wave
spectrum produced during the earlier phases of preheating.*

---

After a coffee break, at 15:30, Giulia Cusin (Oxford U.) will talk about

### Astrophysical background of gravitational waves: from cosmology to a new era of precision astrophysics


*The astrophysical background of gravitational waves (AGWB) is made up
by the incoherent superposition of gravitational wave signals emitted
by a large number of resolved and unresolved astrophysical sources
from the onset of stellar activity until today, and that we collect at
our detectors. I present a theoretical framework to fully characterize
the AGWB in terms of energy density anisotropies and polarization and
I show the first numerical predictions for the angular power spectra
of anisotropies in different frequency bands and for
cross-correlations with electromagnetic observables such as weak
leaning and galaxy number counts. l then illustrate and discuss the
astrophysical implications of this study.  By properly modelling the
properties of the AGWB, it will be possible to extract for the first
time precise data on galactic and stellar physics and on astrophysical
processes of GW emission. In the same way as the discovery and study
of the cosmic microwave background has represented a turning point for
cosmology, the study of the AGWB will represent a true revolution for
astrophysics eventually leading to a new era of precision
astrophysics.*




