---
layout: post
title:  Belgian Gravitational Waves meeting
category: News
date: 2019-10-16 14:00:00 +0100
---

On **Thursday 22th**, we have the pleasure to host the Belgian
Gravitational Waves meeting. It starts at **2pm**, seminar **room
E349**. Our guest speaker is **Chris Belczynski** and our local
speaker is **Sébastien Clesse**.

[**GW meetings**](https://fys.kuleuven.be/gwc/activities-folder/GWseminars)

---

At 14:00, Chris Belczynski (Copernicus Center, Warsaw, Poland), will be talking about


### Gravitational-wave Astrophysics: LIGO/Virgo BH-BH/BH-NS/NS-NS mergers

*I will discuss the astrophysical importance of the recent LIGO/Virgo
direct detections of gravitational-waves. Despite the fact that massive
BH-BH dominance in gravitational-wave signal was predicted prior the
detections, it is not at all clear which one of the several formation
scenarios produces these massive mergers. This inhibits astrophysical
information inference from LIGO/Virgo observations, as conclusions are
different within each formation scenario. There is quite an opposite
problem with the first detection of NS-NS merger in an old elliptical
host galaxy, as none of the formation channels can easily recover
rather high NS-NS merger rate estimated by LIGO/Virgo. The recent
detection of BH-NS merger seems to indicate the existence of compact
objects in the first mass gap.
Additionally, all of the ten O1/O2 LIGO/Virgo BH-BH merger detections
have low values for their effective spins. I will demonstrate how this
can be naturally explained within framework of classical binary evolution
scenario of the formation of BH-BH mergers. It appears that magnetic
fields (Tayler-Spruit dynamo) play an important role in efficient
transport of angular momentum and spin-down of massive stars that produce
low-spinning black holes.*

---

After a coffee break, at 15:30, Sébastien Clesse (CURL, UCLouvain)
will talk about

### Primordial black hole predictions for black hole merger detections in LIGO/Virgo

*Primordial Black Hole (PBH) can explain the rates and relatively low
effective spins of Black Hole (BH) mergers seen by LIGO/Virgo, if they
constitute a fraction, or even the totality of Dark Matter.  If BH
merger progenitors have a primordial origin, their mass suggests a
wide mass distribution, possibly extending down to the sub-solar
region, with a peak between 0.5 and 3 solar mass, due to an
unavoidable boost of PBH formation at the time of QCD transition.  The
latest bounds on the merging rate of sub-solar BH already constrain,
but do not rule out, this possibility.  The O3 run will be decisive to
distinguish between astrophysical and primordial origins, by probing
sub-solar mergers, mergers in the BH mass gap, with low mass ratios,
and black holes above 60 solar masses.*






