---
layout: post
title:  Informal meeting on Primordial Black Holes
category: News
date: 2019-04-01 08:00:00 +0100
---

We hold an informal meeting, organized one day before the Solvay
Workshop on ["The dark side of Black
Holes"](http://www.solvayinstitutes.be/event/workshop/dark_2019/dark_2019.html)
in Brussels (but not officially related to it), with a few experts on
PBH to discuss recent developments in the field. This takes place
Tuesday 2nd of April, seminar room E349 from 10 am.

Registration [here](https://agenda.irmp.ucl.ac.be/event/3341/).

---

The program starts at 10:00 with Ilia Musco (ICC U. Barcelona)

### Threshold and abundance of primordial black holes: dependence on the profile of the cosmological perturbations

*Primordial black holes can form in the early Universe from the
 collapse of cosmological perturbations after the cosmological horizon
 crossing. They are possible candidates for the dark matter as well as
 for the seeds of supermassive black holes observed today in the
 centre of galaxies. In calculations of spherically symmetric
 collapse, using a large curvature perturbation in the super horizon
 regime, the initial conditions are specified using the gradient
 expansion approximation in the long wave length limit. The non linear
 evolution is then simulated using a Lagrangian relativistic
 hydrodynamical code. If the perturbation is larger than a threshold
 depending on the equation of state and on the specific shape of the
 perturbation, a black hole is formed. In this talk I will discuss the
 dependence of PBH formation from the initial shape of the curvature
 profile showing the relation between the threshold amplitude and the
 steepness of the perturbation which is linked to the amplitude of the
 pressure gradients that are developing during the collapse. I will
 show how to derive the initial curvature profile form the shape of
 the inflationary power spectrum, which affects also the abundance of
 PBHs. Depending on the model, a proper calculation, using the shape
 of the power spectrum, shows that the abundance of PBHs is
 significantly increased by several order of magnitudes compared to
 previous estimations.*

---

At 10:50, Teruaki Suyama (TiTech, Tokyo) will speak about

### Hidden universality in the merger rate distribution in the primordial black hole scenario

*It has been proposed that primordial black holes (PBHs) form binaries
 in the radiation dominated era. Once formed, some fraction of them
 may merge within the age of the Universe by gravitational radiation
 reaction. We investigate the merger rate of the PBH binaries when the
 PBH mass function is not monochromatic, which is a generalization of
 the previous studies where the PBHs are assumed to have the same
 mass. After deriving a formula for the merger time probability
 distribution in the PBH mass plane, we evaluate it under two
 different approximations. We identify a quantity constructed from the
 mass-distribution of the merger rate density whose value is close to
 unity for all binary masses independently of the PBH mass
 function. This result suggests that the measurement of this quantity
 is useful for testing the PBH scenario.*

---

After lunch, we will have Florian Kuhnel (Oscar Klein Centre,
Stockholm U.) with

### Primordial Black Holes - Formation, Constraints, Uncertainties

*Primordial black holes are black holes that may have formed in the
 early Universe. Their masses potentially span a range from as low as
 the Planck mass up to many orders of magnitude above the solar
 mass. This, in particular, includes black holes of the order of 10
 solar masses, like those recently discovered by LIGO. These may be of
 primordial origin. In order to quantitatively asses this and related
 scenarios, a profound understanding of the holes' formation mechanism
 necessary. After a general introduction on primordial black holes, I
 will discuss the most consequential aspects of their formation, and
 elaborate on the observable imprints these may leave. I will give an
 overview about recent abundance limits, discuss the uncertainty of
 these constraints.*

---

And finally, Michael Hawkins (Edimburg O.) will close the day talking about

### The signature of primordial black holes in galaxy dark matter haloes

*There are several well-known gravitationally lensed quasar systems
 where the quasar images appear to lie well clear of the stars in the
 lensing galaxy. I shall show that in some such cases the stellar
 population cannot account for the observed microlensing. In these
 cases the most plausible bodies responsible for thr lensing are
 primordial black holes.*
