---
layout: post
title: Cosmology Seminar
category: News
date: 2021-11-22 08:00:00 +0100
---

Our next cosmology seminar takes place on **Wednesday 1st** of December,
seminar **room E349** at **2pm**. The speaker is **Maxence Corman**
from the Perimeter Institude (Waterloo, Canada).

---

At 14:00, room E349, Maxence Corman (PI), will be talking about


### Evolving black holes in a nonsingular bouncing universe


*One of the main unanswered questions of theoretical cosmology is
whether the universe emerged from a big bang followed by a period of
inflation or whether it had no beginning at all and bounced from a
period of slow contraction to the current expanding phase.  It has
been shown recently that it is possible for the universe to undergo a
nonsingular bounce at energies well below the Planck scale such that
the entire evolution can be treated classically. It is however still
unclear how to treat the passage of any pre-existing black holes
through the bounce to the expanding phase.  In this talk, we use
numerical techniques to consider the classical evolution of a black
hole in a non-singular universe driven by a ``ghost'' scalar field. We
find that at least for small enough black holes, the black hole passes
through the bounce freely, albeit losing energy in the process.
Pushing this further, we also show that if the Hubble patch during
contraction shrinks to a size comparable or smaller than the radius of
the black hole this gives rise to interesting dynamics such as
disappearing and re-emerging horizons.*
