---
layout: post
title:  Belgian Cosmo Meeting
category: News
date: 2021-10-05 08:00:00 +0100
---

We hold an informal meeting during which new comers working in
Cosmology will present their work and research topics. This takes
place Wednesday 6th of October, seminar room E349 from 2pm to 6pm.

---

The program starts at 14:00 with Albert Escrivà (ULB, Phys. Th.)

### Formation of Primordial Black Holes

*Primordial Black Holes (PBHs) could have been formed in the very
 early universe due to the collapse of large curvature fluctuations
 after inflation. PBHs are nowadays one of the most attractive and
 fascinating research areas in cosmology for their possible
 theoretical and observational implications. In this talk, I will
 review the physical process of PBH formation, and the numerical
 tools used to simulate them.*

---

At 14:45, Pierre Auclair (UCLouvain, CURL) will talk about

### Population of cosmic strings and gravitational waves

*Cosmic strings are one-dimensional topological defects that could be
 formed during phase transitions in the primordial Universe. If
 formed, these relics would be markers of the upheavals of our early
 universe. During this talk, we will discuss about the evolution of
 the cosmic string network, in particular the density of loops and
 their gravitational wave emission. We will then make the connection
 with the future space-based LISA mission, and the results from
 LIGO/Virgo/KAGRA. If time permits, we will also show that the
 presence of cosmic strings may also affect other types of
 observables, such as the dark matter content of the Universe and the
 diffuse gamma-ray background.*

---

After a break, at 16:00, Isabel Oldengott (UCLouvain, CP3) will be
talking about

### Local relic neutrino density with kinetic field theory

*Kinetic field theory (KFT) is a statistical field theory for an
 ensemble of classical particles. It has quite recently been applied
 to large scale structure formation, showing a remarkable agreement to
 the results from N-body simulations. I am currently working on its
 application on the computation of the local relic neutrino density
 and will give a short review on the current status of the project.*

---

