---
layout: post
title: BEL Center exhibition
category: Outreach
date: 2022-06-22 08:00:00 +0100
---

Anticipating the opening of the Brout-Englert-Lema√Ætre Center, a few
aesthetic pictures associated with our researches will be on display
during the "Walk in the Park" event, on Saturday the 25th at the
Tournay Solvay Park (11am).

### Anamorphosis from the Big-Bang

On display, you'll find a black and white fractal image, extracted
from Ref. {% cite clesse:2009ur %}.

![ichybrid](/assets/images/outreach/anamorphosis.png)

*Cosmic inflation is an hypothetic phase of accelerated expansion of
the Universe, a tiny fraction of second after the Big-Bang, induced by
the existence of a scalar field in the early Universe and suspected to
be at the origin of the present structures of the Universe. During
inflation, in about $$10^{-35}$$ second, the distance between any two
points in the Universe separated by one meter becomes larger than the
distance to the farthest galaxies. This makes inflation one of the
most fascinating phenomena in Science.*

*This picture shows the results of more than 4 millions numerical
simulations of inflation in a model with two scalar fields, called
hybrid inflation, for which inflation stops due a broken symmetry,
similar to the Brout-Englert-Higgs mechanism. The $$x$$ and $$y$$ axis
represent the initial value of each scalar field, a white dot indicate
that the simulation led to enough expansion for being compatible with
our Universe, whereas for black dots, there is no, or not enough,
inflation.*

*Before these results were obtained in Ref. {% cite clesse:2009ur %},
at ULB and UCLouvain, it was thought that only the thin vertical white
band could lead to inflation, suggesting a fine-tuning problem. This
picture shows that, on the contrary, a large number of initial
conditions are satisfactory and form a complex fractal structure. In
analogy with anamorphosis, a phenomena consisting in the distortion of
an image through an optical instrument, one can see this fractal
structure as the image of the thin vertical band seen through the
potential associated with the scalar fields, playing the role of the
optical instrument.*

---

### The night sky by GAIA

Using the recently released public domain data DR3 from the GAIA satellite
(ESA), we have reconstructed a view of our night sky, as you would see
it with very sensitive eyes, eyes that would allow you to actually see
daylight colors but in the dark.

[![gaialaxy](/assets/images/outreach/gaialaxy.png)](/vlimages/gaialaxy)

*This image represents the integrated light flux coming from all faint
sources of light, of magnitude greater than $$10$$, in human-visible
colors (sRGB). These sources are mostly stars from our own Galaxy and
have been measured by the [**Gaia
satellite**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia_(spacecraft))
(ESA/Gaia/DPAC). There are more than 1.5 billion of stars accounted
for in this image. The image making code is available here:
[**gaialaxy**](https://github.com/eatdust/gaialaxy).*

---


### The Cosmic Strings Microwave Sky

Extracted from Ref. {% cite ringeval:2012tk %}, a small piece of a
computer generated all sky map of the Cosmic Microwave Background
generated by Cosmic Strings.

![gradmag](/assets/images/outreach/gradmap.png)

*These objects are line-like defects in the fabric of space-time and
could have been formed in the earliest times of the Universe history.
This picture is a small part of a full sky image computed using
$$12000$$ processors of one of the largest world computer at that
time: the Cray XE6
[**Hopper**](https://www.nersc.gov/about/nersc-history/history-of-systems/)
at the [**NERSC**](https://www.nersc.gov/). This image has been used
to search for Cosmic Strings in the [**Planck
satellite**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_(spacecraft)) data
(ESA).*

