---
layout: post
title: Cosmology Seminar
category: News
date: 2022-05-12 08:00:00 +0100
---

The next cosmology seminar takes place on **Thursday 19th** of
May, seminar **room E349** at **11am**. Our guest speaker will be
**Hugo Roussille** from APC (Paris, France).

---

At 11:00, room E349, Hugo Rousille (APC), will be talking about


### Linear perturbations of black holes in DHOST gravity

*General relativity can be tested at many scales using various
 physical systems. A particularly interesting probe is the study of
 the ringdown phase of a binary black hole merger, during which the
 gravitational waves emitted by the newly-formed black hole are well
 described by perturbation theory over a single black hole
 background. The features of these waves depend heavily on the theory
 of gravity underlying the solution and the solution
 itself. Therefore, they can be used both to test GR and rule out some
 black hole solutions. We focus in this talk on the study of new
 behaviours for these waves in scalar-tensor theories in the
 Degenerate Higher-Order Scalar-Tensor (DHOST) class. In such
 theories, the usual dichotomy between axial (odd parity) and polar
 (even parity) perturbations no longer enables one to decouple all
 degrees of freedom since the even parity sector contains one
 additional scalar degree of freedom. Axial perturbations can still be
 completely decoupled: we show that they propagate in an effective
 metric that differs from the background metric, and is not always a
 black hole metric. In the case of polar perturbations, we present a
 systematic approach that extracts the asymptotic behaviour of
 perturbations at spatial infinity and near the horizon directly from
 the perturbed Einstein’s equations. This asymptotic behavior gives
 physical insight about the modes, such as their direction and speed
 of propagation, and allows us to rule out some solutions that
 explicit bad behavior. Furthermore, we can use the obtained
 asymptotic behavior to numerically solve the propagation equations
 and compute quasinormal modes in systems where this was not possible
 before.*




