---
layout: post
title: Cosmology Seminar
category: News
date: 2022-09-26 08:00:00 +0100
---

The next cosmology seminar takes place on **Friday 30th** of
September, seminar **room E349** at **2pm**. Our guest speaker will be
**Nilanjandev Bhaumik** from the Indian Institute of Science (Bangalore, India).

---

At 2pm, room E349, Nilanjan Bhaumik (IIS), will be talking about


### Stochastic gravitational waves background to probe the reheating histories in the presence of primordial black holes

*Primordial black hole (PBH) is one of the most promising cold dark
 matter candidates in recent years. The signature of PBHs in the
 stochastic gravitational-wave background (SGWB) is natural as PBH
 formation requires a significant amplification in inflationary scalar
 curvature perturbation, which sources the tensor perturbation in
 second order and amplifies the SGWB. We explore this possibility to
 probe different possible reheating histories. We find that any change
 in reheating histories can shift the PBH mass range and the peak
 frequency of SGWB. Still, only the matter-dominated reheating phase
 can lead to an additional resonant amplification in SGWB at a very
 high frequency.
 Isocurvature perturbation from PBH distributions
 contributes to the adiabatic perturbation. It also leads to
 detectable amplification in the induced GW background and can
 contribute to Baryogenesis for ultra-low mass PBHs, which can
 dominate the universe for a small duration. Combining these two
 effects can help us probe primordial black hole scenarios and details
 of reheating histories, leaving diverse implications for cosmology
 and particle physics.*




