---
layout: post
title: Cosmology Seminar
category: News
date: 2023-10-11 08:00:00 +0100
---

The next cosmology seminar takes place on **Thursday 2nd** of
November, seminar **room E349** at **2pm**. Our guest speaker will be
**Suvashis Maity** from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)
Madras (Chennai, India).

---

At 2pm, room E349,  Suvashis Maity (IIT Madras), will be talking about

### Ultra slow roll inflation and loop corrections to the scalar power spectrum

*Recently, there have been efforts to examine the contributions to the
 scalar power spectrum due to the loops arising from the cubic order
 terms in the action describing the perturbations, specifically in
 inflationary scenarios that permit a brief epoch of ultra slow roll
 (USR). A phase of USR inflation leads to significant observational
 consequences, such as the copious production of primordial black
 holes. In this talk, I shall discuss the loop contributions to the
 scalar power spectrum in scenarios of USR inflation arising due to
 the quartic order terms in the action describing the scalar
 perturbations. I shall initially describe the computation of the loop
 contributions to the scalar power spectrum due to the dominant term
 in the action at the quartic order. Thereafter, I shall consider a
 scenario wherein a phase of USR is sandwiched between two stages of
 slow roll inflation and describe the behavior of the loop
 contributions in situations involving late, intermediate and early
 epochs of USR. In the inflationary scenario involving a late phase of
 USR, for reasonable choices of the parameters, I shall show that the
 loop corrections are negligible for the entire range of wave
 numbers. In the intermediate case, the contributions from the loops
 prove to be scale invariant over large scales, and we find that these
 contributions can amount to 30% of the power spectrum at the leading
 order. In the case wherein USR sets in early, we find that the loop
 contributions could be negative and can dominate the power spectrum
 at the leading order, which indicates a breakdown of the perturbative
 expansion. I shall conclude with a brief summary and outlook.*




