---
layout: post
title: Vanilla Inflation Predicts Negative Running
category: News
date: 2024-10-17 08:00:00 +0100
---

Within the landscape of single-field slow-roll models, and given the
present cosmological data, we show that Cosmic Inflation predicts a
small negative running of the spectral index of the cosmological
fluctuations. This quantity imprints the large scale structures of the
universe and we have just made a prediction for its value. Will it be
measured negative and small?



In inflationary cosmology, cosmic structures like galaxies find their
origin in the quantum fluctuations occurring in the first instants of
the universe history. Large and small structures today, represented in
the following figure by two length scales $$\lambda_1$$ and
$$\lambda_2$$, do not exit the Hubble radius during inflation at the
same times. This time-shift at Hubble exit, combined with a small
change of the Hubble radius itself, explains why cosmic structures are
aggregated slightly differently at large and small distances. In
technical terms, the power spectrum of the cosmological fluctuations
is not scale invariant but has a spectral index which is, according to
current observations, slightly red $$n_\mathrm{S} \lesssim 1$$.

![sketch](/assets/images/2404.15089/infsketch.png)

Such a redness of $$n_\mathrm{S}$$ is a "natural" expectation of the
single-field scenarios depicted in the previous picture. Indeed, the
accelerated slow rolling of the field along its potential necessarily
triggers a small growth of the Hubble radius during inflation. Other
inflation models do exist in which the slow rolling is actually
accelerated and their predicted spectral index ends up being
blue. These models are however strongly disfavoured since the first
measurements of $$n_\mathrm{S}$$ by the
[**WMAP**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wilkinson_Microwave_Anisotropy_Probe)
satellite (see also this [**post**]({% post_url 2024-09-01-2404.10647
%})).

As can be seen in the previous figure, not only the Hubble radius
grows but it also accelerates towards the end of inflation. This
acceleration implies that the spectral index itself cannot be scale
invariant, it should vary with length scales, and that is the
definition of the running $$\alpha_\mathrm{S}$$. As such, if our
understanding of inflation is correct, measuring a red spectral index
$$n_\mathrm{S} < 1$$ necessarily implies a negative running
$$\alpha_\mathrm{S} < 0$$.


In Ref. {% cite martin:2024nlo %}, [**Christophe**](/member/chris), in
collaboration with [**Jérôme Martin**](https://www.iap.fr) and
[**Vincent
Vennin**](https://www.lpens.ens.psl.eu/vincent-vennin/?lang=en), have
computed the marginalized posterior probability of the running of the
spectral index $$\alpha_\mathrm{S}$$ given the latest Cosmic Microwave
Background and Baryon Acoustic Oscillations measurements (see this
[**post**]({% post_url 2024-09-01-2404.10647 %}) for more details on
the cosmological data used). The probability distribution is
represented below, along with various credible intervals, showing that
single-field inflationary models predict a negative running.

![alphapost](/assets/images/2404.15089/running_posterior.png)

In numbers, we find (confidence given in parenthesis):

$$ -8.8 \times 10^{-4}   <  \alpha_\mathrm{S} < -4.7 \times 10^{-4} \quad (68\%), $$

$$ -1.4 \times 10^{-3} < \alpha_\mathrm{S} < -2.4 \times 10^{-4} \quad (95\%), $$

$$ -1.8 \times 10^{-3} < \alpha_\mathrm{S} < -9.1 \times 10^{-5} \quad (98\%). $$

These credible intervals are actual predictions and result from the
current data being analysed under the theoretical prior that inflation
is in the landscape of the slow-roll single-field models. As such,
they are highly non-trivial.

For instance, dropping information from data, or, from the theoretical
prior, would let us without any determination of the sign of
$$\alpha_\mathrm{S}$$. The following figure shows the posterior
obtained by not assuming any specific inflationary scenario ("just
slow-roll") as a dashed blue curve. The posterior plotted earlier is
reported here as a solid red curve (labelled "model space"). Allowed
values of $$\alpha_\mathrm{S}$$ under the "just slow-roll" hypothesis
are orders of magnitude larger and the sign can be positive or
negative.

![onlysr](/assets/images/2404.15089/compslowpost.png)

If, instead, we drop the data while keeping the theoretical prior to be
single-field models, one gets

![alphaprior](/assets/images/2404.15089/running_priors.png)

The credible intervals are reported and they show that positive values
of the running are allowed within the prior. Therefore, only the
combination of the current cosmological data and the hypothesis that
inflation occurred within the landscape of single-field models allows
us to make the prediction that the running is negative.