---
layout: category
title: About
---

We are a small active group of researchers working in Cosmology at <a
href="https://www.uclouvain.be"><strong>Louvain
University</strong></a>. Cosmology and Astronomy, while being very
beautiful and predictive, are not concerned with cosmetics nor
astrology. Instead, we do Science and study the whole Universe from
its very first instants to the present times.

Our expertises range from theories of the Early Universe to
Observational Cosmology. On the theory side, we are working on Cosmic
Inflation, Cosmological Perturbations, Extra-dimensions, General
Relativity, Modified Gravity, Primordial Black Holes, Topological
Defects... On the observational side, we have been actively involved in
data analysis for the <a
href="http://pla.esac.esa.int/pla/#home"><strong>PLANCK
satellite</strong></a> and are now turning to the next generation of
CMB polarization experiments, such as the <a
href="http://www.core-mission.org"><strong>CORE
mission</strong></a>. We are also part of the <a
href="http://www.euclid-ec.org/"><strong>EUCLID mission</strong></a>
which is a space telescope dedicated to the observation of the large
scale structures of the Universe. Another part of our researches is
concerned with astrophysical subjects such as the 21cm radiation from
the Epoch of Reionization and some of us are involved in the <a
href="https://www.skatelescope.org/"><strong>SKA giant radio
telescope</strong></a>.  Gravitational Wave Cosmology is also part of
our researches and we are part of the Belgian task force for the <a
href="https://lisamission.org/"><strong>LISA mission</strong></a>.



CURL has been forked from the <a
href="http://cp3.irmp.ucl.ac.be"><strong>Center of Cosmology, Particle
Physics and Phenomenology (CP3)</strong></a> in 2018 and we are the
core of what was the <a
href="https://uclouvain.be/en/research-institutes/irmp/cp3/cosmology-and-general-relativity.html"><strong>Cosmology
Group</strong></a> at CP3. This has been triggered by various reasons.
First, a change in policy in the Belgian funding agencies giving
financial priority to subject-oriented research topics. The great
diversity of research directions hosted at CP3 ended up being an
handicap. Then, most of the CP3 activities in the past have been
dedicated to Particle Physics, which has led to the discovery of the
Brout-Englert-Higgs boson. The next scientific revolutions may come
from the Sky and the home university of G. Lema√Ætre should certainly
contribute to this adventure. In our actual research works, we are of
course still sharing many things with CP3. Both groups are hosted at
the same place under the <a
href="https://uclouvain.be/en/research-institutes/irmp"><strong>Institute
of Mathematics and Physics (IRMP)</strong></a>.
